BDD Assessment

A) Setup
1. Install Eclipse IDE with latest version - Version: 2024-03 (4.31.0) used here. Provide desired name to the workspace during installation.
2. Download project from shared GitHub repository and keep it in the workspace folder created.
3. Open this project in Eclipse.


B) Run Tests
1. Open TestRunner.java file under com.test package
2. Right click on it -> Click on option 'Run As' -> Click on option 'JUnit Test'
3. Execution will start after this for the feature file mentioned in the TestRunner file.


C) View Report
1. On completion of test suite execution, on console, there will appear a green colored box at the very end with text as, 'View your Cucumber Report at:'. 
2. Copy and paste the link below this text in your browser.
3. Make sure to remove unwanted or gibberish characters from start and/or end of the URL is there appear any.
4. Press enter key and you will be able to see HTML format report for the tests that have run along with details like status, execution time etc..
5. Apart from this, other format reports like, json, junit reports will generate automatically at the end of every test run. They can be found under target folder, inside MyReports folder rest of the reports.
6. User might need to refresh the project so that latest reports can be found at the said location. For that right click on project name folder (CucumberQAProject in this case) ->  click on 'Refresh' option. 


D) Folder Structure
1. CucumberQAProject is a Maven Java Project and Cucumber is integrated with it.
2. For every Maven project, default directory structure is given to user.
3. Under src/main/java directory, multiple packages are created as per need and some are present by default. com.constants package has classes having constant values which will be used for comparisons in scripts.
4. com.pageObjects package has page-wise classes having webelements locators listed inside. Also, various operations on these locators e.g. click a filed, fill value in it etc. will be performed in these classes.
5. stepDefinition package has classes mapped for every feature file having definitions/methods for every step mentioned in the corresponding feature files.
6. com.test package has Runner class that provides cucumber options which informs the location of feature files and location to find the stepdefinitions for those feature files. Also, it informs location of hooks file. Along with this, it contains information about format, what types of reports will get generated and their location. TestRunner class inside com.test package basically acts like bridge between feature files and code to implement them and where to find the output reports for those tests.
7. support package has Hooks class. Hooks file has steps defined that need to be executed before and after every scenario run.
8. features folder contains all the feature files. Cucumber tests are written in plain text files called feature files. These files describe the behavior and functionality of the software using a specific syntax called Gherkin. Gherkin is a structured language that uses keywords like Given, When, and Then to define the steps of a test scenario. A feature files can contain one or many test scenarios focused around particular feature under test.
9. target folder contains MyReports folder where generated test reports in various formats post tests execution will get automatically stored.
10. pom.xml file is auto-generated xml file for a Maven project. It has all the libraries mentioned that we need for the project to run, along with their version mentioned.
11. Apart from above mentioned directories - some of which are generated by default and some are created by user as per requirement, we also have other default folders created in order to store Maven dependencies, Referred libraries etc. 


E) Test Design Approach
1.Feature file has scenarios about how to test a feature. Stepdefinition file has definitions/code for every step for a scenario in corresponding feature file. Using these definition/methods, we can send data inputs needed to be provided to webelement locator in pageobject file, e.g., username and password on Login screen. 
2. PageObject file has actual locators and methods to interact with those locators and they are separated page-wise. This means for every page we have separate pageobject file, e.g., login page, products listing page, cart page, checkout page etc. In this way, if locator changes in future due to any particular reason, we don't need to change scripts that work on those locators. 
3. Same goes for keeping constants in separate files as the constant values are not going to change and even if they do, we don't need to change script - we can simply update value in the corresponding constant file.


F) Assumptions
1. Test cases that are automated are chosen as per flows/scenarios mentioned in the shared pre-interview test assessment document. Other flows like, click on product and view its details, use of sorting filter on products page, open menus like About etc. are skipped from automation test for now, however they can be automated if needed. 
2. Tools used are Selenium Webriver, Java, Cucucmber, Maven and various report formats provided by Cucumber.
3. Cucumber report, json report, junit report are integrated with the project so that they will be auto-generated at completion of every test suite run.